feat(anta): New AntaRunner class with limit concurrency (#680)
aristanetworks/anta: docs/advanced_usages/scaling.md

---
anta_title: "🚀 Scaling ANTA: A Comprehensive Guide"
---
<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2023-2025 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

# 📖 Introduction

!!! warning "Advanced Guide"
    This document covers advanced ANTA configuration and scaling strategies. If you need assistance with specific deployments or optimizations:

    - 📧 Contact your favorite Arista Systems Engineer
    - 💻 Open an issue or a discussion on ANTA [GitHub repository](https://github.com/aristanetworks/anta)
    - 🤝 Join the discussion in our community channels

>     This guide also assumes you have a basic understanding of ANTA and are familiar with its core concepts. If you're new to ANTA, we recommend starting with the [ANTA Getting Started](../getting-started.md) before proceeding.

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

> **ANTA** (Arista Network Test Automation) is continually evolving to meet the demands of large-scale network validation. As networks grow in size and complexity, the need for efficient, scalable testing becomes increasingly important. This guide explores comprehensive strategies for scaling ANTA to handle large network fabrics effectively.

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

# 🔄 Core Optimizations

## Understanding ANTA's Asynchronous Nature

ANTA uses Python `asyncio` library for concurrent execution:

- 📦 Each test is a coroutine in the main event loop
- ⚡ Tests run concurrently, not in parallel
- ⚙️ The event loop manages all coroutines and network I/O

!!! note "Key Concept"
    While `asyncio` provides excellent concurrency, there are practical limits to how many coroutines can be efficiently managed in a single event loop running on one CPU core. High coroutine counts increase event loop overhead, lead to frequent context switching, consume more memory, and may degrade performance.

## Resource Management

This section describes the environment variables to control resource usage provided by ANTA.

!!! tip "Default Values"

>     The values specified in the following examples are the actual default values used by ANTA. See the [Performance Tuning](#performance-tuning) section for guidance on adjusting these values.

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

### **Test Concurrency**

ANTA limits the number of concurrent test coroutines to prevent event loop overload. The runner schedules coroutines up to this limit, then waits for some to complete before scheduling more. The following variable can be used to tune this limit:

```bash
export ANTA_MAX_CONCURRENCY=10000
```

### **File Descriptors**

> ANTA manages the number of open file descriptors, which are primarily used for handling device connections. At startup, on POSIX systems (Linux/macOS), ANTA attempts to set its process's soft limit to the maximum allowed value (up to 16384). This adjustment is necessary because the default soft limit (typically 1024) may be too low for large-scale testing, while the system's hard limit is often higher. If the system's hard limit is lower than the number of file descriptors ANTA needs, you'll see a warning at startup. The following environment variable controls this setting:

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

```bash
export ANTA_NOFILE=16384
```

On Windows (non-POSIX systems), ANTA cannot adjust file descriptor limits. In these cases, ANTA will:

- Use Python `sys.maxsize` as the limit
- Display a warning message: "Running on a non-POSIX system, cannot adjust the maximum number of file descriptors"

> - Continue operation with system defaults

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

For POSIX systems, if you need to increase the hard limit:

- Check your current hard limit:

```bash
ulimit -n -H
```

> - Set a new limit by creating `/etc/security/limits.d/10-anta.conf`:

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

```bash
<user> hard nofile <value>
```

Replace `<user>` with the username running ANTA, and `<value>` with your desired limit (system-dependent).

- Log out and back in for changes to take effect.

## Connection Management

> For [`AsyncEosDevice`](../api/device.md#anta.device.AsyncEOSDevice) implementations (default in ANTA), ANTA uses the [`httpx`](https://www.python-httpx.org/) library as its underlying HTTP client for device connections. Each device has his own connection pool and HTTPX uses a default maximum of `100` connections. On large fabrics, this can lead to a very high number of connections (n x 100), which may overwhelm the ANTA process. Note that custom `AntaDevice` subclasses might implement different HTTP settings. For `AsyncEosDevice`, connection pooling can be tuned via the following environment variables. See [HTTPX documentation](https://www.python-httpx.org/advanced/resource-limits/) for more details.

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

```bash
# Maximum number of allowable connections
export ANTA_MAX_CONNECTIONS=10

# Number of allowable keep-alive connections
export ANTA_MAX_KEEPALIVE_CONNECTIONS=10

# Time limit on idle keep-alive connections in seconds
export ANTA_KEEPALIVE_EXPIRY=5.0
```

> !!! warning "Variable relationships"

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

    The value of `ANTA_MAX_KEEPALIVE_CONNECTIONS` should be lower than `ANTA_MAX_CONNECTIONS`.

## Timeouts Configuration

ANTA provides several environment variables to control `httpx` timeouts. A global timeout can be set via the `--timeout` command-line option or the `ANTA_TIMEOUT` environment variable. See [HTTPX documentation](https://www.python-httpx.org/advanced/timeouts/) for more details.

```bash
# Maximum amount of time to wait until a socket connection to the requested host is established
export ANTA_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum duration to wait for a chunk of data to be received (for example, a chunk of the response body)
export ANTA_READ_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum duration to wait for a chunk of data to be sent (for example, a chunk of the request body)
export ANTA_WRITE_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum duration to wait for acquiring a connection from the connection pool
export ANTA_POOL_TIMEOUT=inf
```

!!! warning "Global timeout"

>     Setting a global timeout via the `--timeout` command-line option or the `ANTA_TIMEOUT` environment variable will override **ALL** individual timeout settings.

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

!!! tip "Disabling timeouts"
    Setting a timeout to the float value `inf` will disable the timeout for that operation. ANTA will convert this value to `None` internally.

## Performance Tuning

For optimal performance on large fabrics, consider the following tuning parameters:

1. Increase timeouts for stability:

    ```bash
    export ANTA_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=60.0
    export ANTA_READ_TIMEOUT=300.0
    export ANTA_WRITE_TIMEOUT=60.0
    export ANTA_POOL_TIMEOUT=inf
    ```

    This is **very** important for large fabrics. Setting appropriate timeouts for each operation type prevents test failures while maintaining proper error detection. The `ANTA_POOL_TIMEOUT=inf` default setting is crucial for large-scale deployments because:

      - ANTA launches multiple test coroutines simultaneously (up to `ANTA_MAX_CONCURRENCY`)
      - With thousands of tests, not all can acquire a connection immediately
      - The connection pool queues requests when all connections are in use
      - Without `ANTA_POOL_TIMEOUT=inf`, requests might fail if they can't get a connection within the specified timeout

>       - Setting it to `None` allows the connection pool to manage request queuing naturally

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

2. Adjust concurrency based on test count and system resources:

    ```bash

>     # For 250 devices with 100 tests each (25,000 total tests)

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

    export ANTA_MAX_CONCURRENCY=25000
    ```

>     Even though the default value is `10000`, it may not be optimal for your system. The optimal value depends on your CPU usage, memory consumption, and total execution time. Start with the default and adjust in increments while monitoring these metrics to find the best balance for your environment.

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

3. Optimize connection pooling:

    ```bash
    export ANTA_MAX_CONNECTIONS=10
    export ANTA_MAX_KEEPALIVE_CONNECTIONS=10
    ```

    The default values are a good starting point for large fabrics. Adjust them based on your fabric size and performance testing.

4. Consider JSON over YAML for better performance:

    - JSON files load more efficiently than YAML in Python
    - Convert large YAML files to JSON (you can use tools like `jq` or `yq`)

        ```bash

>         yq -o=json eval 'inventory.yaml' > inventory.json

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

    - Particularly beneficial for large inventories and test catalogs

# 🔀 Distributed Testing

While ANTA is designed to work efficiently as a single process, there may be scnarios where running multiple instances of ANTA is beneficial.

## Possible Use Cases

- **Distributed Testing**: Running ANTA instances on different machines to test separate parts of your network (e.g., data centers, regions)
- **Parallel Execution**: Using tools like `GNU Parallel` to run multiple ANTA instances targeting different device groups (e.g., spines, leafs)
- **Independent Testing**: Running separate ANTA instances for different testing purposes (e.g., connectivity tests vs. routing tests)

# 🎉 Conclusion

By implementing these scaling strategies, you can efficiently run ANTA tests on large network fabrics. The combination of optimized resource management, proper tuning, and thoughtful organization ensures fast and reliable network validation.

Remember to:

- ✅ Optimize resource usage through environment variables
- 📋 Consider file format performance impacts
- 📊 Choose appropriate output formats for your needs
- ⚡ Monitor and adjust based on your specific environment

!!! tip "Need Help?"

>     Performance tuning can be complex and highly dependent on your specific deployment. See the warning "Advanced Guide" at the beginning of this document for assistance options.

Reviewer: can we put an anchor?

Author: Removed the guide. Check FAQ instead.

For large fabrics (500+ devices), you may need to combine both approaches for optimal performance.

## 🔄 Single Process Optimization

### Understanding ANTA's Asynchronous Nature

ANTA uses Python's `asyncio` library for concurrent execution:

- 📦 Each test is a coroutine in the main event loop
- 🔄 Tests run concurrently, not in parallel
- ⚙️ The event loop manages all coroutines and network I/O

**Key Concept**: While `asyncio` provides excellent concurrency, there are practical limits to how many coroutines can be efficiently managed in a single event loop running on one CPU core. High coroutine counts increase event loop overhead, lead to frequent context switching, consume more memory, and may degrade performance.

### Resource Management

ANTA now provides several environment variables to control resource usage:

!!! note "Default Values"
    The values specified in the following examples are the actual default values used by ANTA. See the [Performance Tuning](#performance-tuning) section for guidance on adjusting these values.

1. **Test Concurrency**:

    ```bash
    export ANTA_MAX_CONCURRENCY=10000
    ```

>     This limits the number of concurrent test coroutines to prevent event loop overload. ANTA will schedule coroutines up to this limit, then wait for some to complete before scheduling more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ANTA limits the number of concurrent test coroutines to prevent event loop overload. The runner schedules coroutines up to this limit, then waits for some to complete before scheduling more. The following variable can be used to tune this limit:
```

2. **File Descriptors**:

    ```bash
    export ANTA_NOFILE=16384
    ```

>     Sets the maximum number of open file descriptors for the ANTA process, usually for handling device connections. At startup, ANTA sets its process’s soft limit to the maximum allowed (up to `16384`). This adjustment is necessary because the soft limit is typically set to `1024`, while the hard limit is often higher (system-dependent). If ANTA’s hard limit is lower than the number of selected tests in ANTA, the process may request more file descriptors than the operating system allows, causing an error. In such cases, a WARNING is displayed at startup.

Reviewer: Same I would first described ANTA behabior and then states that this variable can be used

>     Sets the maximum number of open file descriptors for the ANTA process, usually for handling device connections. At startup, ANTA sets its process’s soft limit to the maximum allowed (up to `16384`). This adjustment is necessary because the soft limit is typically set to `1024`, while the hard limit is often higher (system-dependent). If ANTA’s hard limit is lower than the number of selected tests in ANTA, the process may request more file descriptors than the operating system allows, causing an error. In such cases, a WARNING is displayed at startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Sets the maximum number of open file descriptors for the ANTA process, usually for handling device connections. At startup, ANTA sets its process soft limit to the maximum allowed (up to `16384`). This adjustment is necessary because the soft limit is typically set to `1024`, while the hard limit is often higher (system-dependent). If ANTA hard limit is lower than the number of selected tests in ANTA, the process may request more file descriptors than the operating system allows, causing an error. In such cases, a WARNING is displayed at startup.
```

Also add a note that it does not work on Windows system today.
Maybve we can show the warning

>     To address this, consider increasing the hard limit for the user starting the ANTA process. You can check the current hard limit for a user by running the command `ulimit -n -H` in the terminal. To set a new limit, create the file `/etc/security/limits.d/10-anta.conf` with the following content:

Reviewer: only for UNIX systems add a note that this is system dependent

    ```bash
    <user> hard nofile <value>
    ```

    Replace `<user>` with the username used to start the ANTA process, and `<value>` with the desired hard limit. The maximum value will depend on your system. After creating this file, log out of your current session and log back in for the changes to take effect.

### Connection Management

> ANTA uses the `httpx` library as its underlying HTTP client for device connections. Each device has his own connection pool with a default maximum of `100` connections. On large fabrics, this can lead to a very high number of connections (n x 100), which may overwhelm the ANTA process. Connection pooling can be tuned via:

Reviewer: specify for `AsyncEapiDevice`

```bash
# Maximum number of allowable connections
export ANTA_MAX_CONNECTIONS=100

# Number of allowable keep-alive connections
export ANTA_MAX_KEEPALIVE_CONNECTIONS=20

# Time limit on idle keep-alive connections in seconds
export ANTA_KEEPALIVE_EXPIRY=5.0
```

> **Best Practice**: For large fabrics, limiting connections (5-10 per device) has shown optimal performance in testing. `ANTA_MAX_KEEPALIVE_CONNECTIONS` should be lower than `ANTA_MAX_CONNECTIONS`. See [HTTPX documentation](https://www.python-httpx.org/advanced/resource-limits/) for more details.

Reviewer: make this a box

```
!!! tip "Best Practices"
   ..
```

### Timeouts Configuration

ANTA provides several environment variables to control `httpx` timeouts:

```bash
# Global timeout
export ANTA_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum amount of time to wait until a socket connection to the requested host is established
export ANTA_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum duration to wait for a chunk of data to be received (for example, a chunk of the response body)
export ANTA_READ_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum duration to wait for a chunk of data to be sent (for example, a chunk of the request body)
export ANTA_WRITE_TIMEOUT=30.0

# Maximum duration to wait for acquiring a connection from the connection pool
export ANTA_POOL_TIMEOUT=30.0
```

> If not set, these values default to the global `timeout` of ANTA, which is `30.0` seconds by default. The global timeout can also be set via the `--timeout` command-line option. See [HTTPX documentation](https://www.python-httpx.org/advanced/timeouts/) for more details.

Reviewer: Same would put the text first with ANTA behavior and then explains how it can be finetuned and link to HTTPX

### Performance Tuning

For optimal single-process performance, consider the following tuning parameters:

1. Adjust concurrency based on test count and system resources:

    ```bash
    # For 250 devices with 100 tests each (25,000 total tests)
    export ANTA_MAX_CONCURRENCY=25000
    ```

>     Even though the default value is `10000`, it may not be optimal for your system. You can increase or decrease this value gradually to find the best setting for your environment.

Reviewer: hopw do I determine what is best?runtime?

2. Optimize connection pooling:

    ```bash
    export ANTA_MAX_CONNECTIONS=10
    export ANTA_MAX_KEEPALIVE_CONNECTIONS=5
    ```

    These values are a good starting point for large fabrics. Adjust them based on your fabric size and performance testing.

3. Increase timeouts for stability:

    ```bash
    export ANTA_TIMEOUT=3600.0
    ```

>     This is **very** important for large fabrics. Increase the global timeout to prevent test failures due to timeouts. You shouldn't need to adjust the other timeout values unless you have specific requirements.

Reviewer: Hwo does this manifest?
I feel very important should be all bold and potentially this should be number 1 in the list :)

## 🔀 Multi-Process Scaling

> When single-process optimization isn't enough, you can scale ANTA horizontally by running multiple instances in parallel. This approach is particularly useful for large fabrics with 500+ devices. This section will provide a few examples of how to achieve this using the common tool [`GNU Parallel`](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When single-process optimization isn't enough, you can scale ANTA horizontally by running multiple instances in parallel. This approach is particularly useful for large fabrics with 500+ devices. This section will provide a few examples of how to achieve this using the common tool [`GNU Parallel`](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/).
```
```suggestion
When single-process optimization isn't enough, you can scale ANTA horizontally by running multiple instances in parallel. This approach is particularly useful for large fabrics with 500+ devices. This section provides a couple of examples of how to achieve this using the common tool [`GNU Parallel`](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/).
```

> By leveraging `GNU Parallel` and proper test organization, we can significantly reduce execution time and improve overall performance while maintaining accurate test results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By leveraging `GNU Parallel` and proper test organization, execution time can be significantly reduced, improving overall performance while maintaining accurate test results.
```

### Prerequisites

Before implementing multi-process scaling:

- 🏗️ Understand your fabric topology
- 🎯 Identify natural test boundaries (e.g., devices, PODs, roles, etc.)
- 📋 Plan your test catalog(s) accordingly
- 💻 Understand basic Linux command-line operations

### Installation Requirements

!!! info "System Requirements"
    The following procedures and examples were tested on **Ubuntu 22.04**, using `GNU Parallel` version `20241022` and `yq` version `v4.44.3`. Please refer the tool's documentation for specific installation instructions.

> #### Installing Required Tools

Reviewer: title is not needed as there is no other sub title (or maybe should be called `Ubuntu`

    ```bash
    apt-get install parallel
    ```

2. Install `yq` using the following commands:

    ```bash
    wget https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/latest/download/yq_linux_amd64 -O /usr/bin/yq &&\
        chmod +x /usr/bin/yq
    ```

3. Confirm the installation by running:

    ```bash
    parallel --version
    yq --version
    ```

    You should see the version information for both tools if the installation was successful:

    ```bash
    (.dev) ~ parallel --version
    GNU parallel 20241022
    Copyright (C) 2007-2024 Ole Tange, http://ole.tange.dk and Free Software
    Foundation, Inc.
    License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
    This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
    GNU parallel comes with no warranty.

    Web site: https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel

    When using programs that use GNU Parallel to process data for publication
    please cite as described in 'parallel --citation'.

    (.dev) ~ yq --version
    yq (https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/) version v4.44.3
    ```

### Scaling Strategies

#### Device-Based Parallelization

> In this approach, we run ANTA instances in parallel, with each instance handling a specific device. This strategy is effective when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this approach, instances of ANTA targeting a single device each are run in parallel. This strategy is effective when:
```

- Each device has unique test requirements, i.e., one catalog per device
- You want to maintain separate results per device
- You need fine-grained control over test execution

Example inventory structure:

```yaml
anta_inventory:
  hosts:
  - host: 172.20.20.101
    name: DC1-SPINE1
  - host: 172.20.20.102
    name: DC1-SPINE2
  # ... more devices
```

Example test catalog structure (one catalog per device):

> ```yaml
> # DC1-SPINE2.yml
> anta.tests.connectivity:
> - VerifyLLDPNeighbors:
>     neighbors:
>     - neighbor_device: DC1-LEAF1A
>       neighbor_port: Ethernet1
>       port: Ethernet1
>     result_overwrite:
>       custom_field: 'Local: Ethernet1 - Remote: DC1-LEAF1A Ethernet1'
> 
> # DC1-SPINE1.yml
> anta.tests.connectivity:
> - VerifyLLDPNeighbors:
>     neighbors:
>     - neighbor_device: DC1-LEAF1A
>       neighbor_port: Ethernet2
>       port: Ethernet1
>     result_overwrite:
>       custom_field: 'Local: Ethernet1 - Remote: DC1-LEAF1A Ethernet2'
> ```

Reviewer: Maybe lets use tabs or columns ?
````suggestion
```yaml
# DC1-SPINE2.yml
anta.tests.connectivity:
- VerifyLLDPNeighbors:
    neighbors:
    - neighbor_device: DC1-LEAF1A
      neighbor_port: Ethernet1
      port: Ethernet1
    result_overwrite:
      custom_field: 'Local: Ethernet1 - Remote: DC1-LEAF1A Ethernet1'
```

```yaml
# DC1-SPINE1.yml
anta.tests.connectivity:
- VerifyLLDPNeighbors:
    neighbors:
    - neighbor_device: DC1-LEAF1A
      neighbor_port: Ethernet2
      port: Ethernet1
    result_overwrite:
      custom_field: 'Local: Ethernet1 - Remote: DC1-LEAF1A Ethernet2'
```
````

#### Tag-Based Parallelization

This approach runs parallel instances based on device tags, useful when:

- Devices in the same role share similar test requirements
- You want to test entire PODs or device groups simultaneously
- You need to organize tests by network function or location

Example inventory structure:

```yaml
---
anta_inventory:
  hosts:
  - host: 172.20.20.101
    name: DC1-SPINE1
    tags: ["SPINE", "DC1"]

  - host: 172.20.20.102
    name: DC1-SPINE2
    tags: ["SPINE", "DC1"]

  - host: 172.20.20.111
    name: DC1-LEAF1A
    tags: ["LEAF", "DC1"]

  - host: 172.20.20.112
    name: DC1-LEAF1B
    tags: ["LEAF", "DC1"]

  - host: 172.20.20.201
    name: DC2-SPINE1
    tags: ["SPINE", "DC2"]

  - host: 172.20.20.202
    name: DC2-SPINE2
    tags: ["SPINE", "DC2"]
  # ... more devices
```

Example test catalog structure (one catalog for all devices):

```yaml
anta.tests.vxlan:
  - VerifyVxlan1Interface:
      filters:
        tags: ["BL", "LEAF"]
  - VerifyVxlanConfigSanity:
      filters:
        tags: ["BL", "LEAF"]

anta.tests.routing:
  generic:
    - VerifyRoutingProtocolModel:
        model: multi-agent
        filters:
          tags: ["SPINE"]
```

> #### Optimizing Catalog Distribution

Reviewer: Should probably come first in the section?

For large fabrics, consider:

1. Creating separate catalogs per device type
2. Organizing catalogs by POD or datacenter
3. Using tag-based filtering within catalogs

Benefits:

- Reduced memory usage per ANTA instance
- Faster catalog processing
- More efficient test execution

### Implementation

> #### Device-Based Implementation

Reviewer: I would move Implementation under each stratgey in a subtitle for easier navigation

        exit 1
    }

    ANTA_INVENTORY="anta_inventory.yml"
    ANTA_CATALOG="anta_catalog.yml"
    TAG_NAME=${1:-}
    NRFU_REPORT_PATH=${2:-nrfu_reports}

    if [[ -z "$TAG_NAME" ]]; then
        usage
    fi

    anta nrfu \
        --tags "$TAG_NAME" \
        -i "$ANTA_INVENTORY" \
        -c "$ANTA_CATALOG" \
        json -o "$NRFU_REPORT_PATH/${TAG_NAME}.json"
    ```

    Same as before, adjust `ANTA_INVENTORY`, `ANTA_CATALOG` to match your environment.

2. Create the parallel execution script (`run-tag.sh`):

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash

    mkdir -p nrfu_reports

    TAGS=$(yq -r '.. | select(.filters?) | .filters.tags[]' < "anta_catalog.yml" | sort -u)

    parallel --tag './nrfu_tag.sh {} nrfu_reports' ::: $TAGS || NRFU_STATUS=$?

    exit $NRFU_STATUS
    ```

    Change `anta_catalog.yml` to match your catalog file specified in `ANTA_CATALOG` of `nrfu-tag.sh`.

3. Make both scripts executable:

    ```bash
    chmod +x nrfu-tag.sh run-tag.sh
    ```

4. Run the script:

    ```bash
    ./run-tag.sh
    ```

5. The script will execute ANTA tests for each tag in parallel, generating a JSON report for each tag in the `nrfu_reports` directory.

> ### Performance Considerations

Reviewer: same this secrtion shoul probably come before Scaling strategies

#### Parallel Job Control

The `-j` option in `GNU Parallel` controls the number of concurrent jobs. Consider these factors when setting the job limit:

1. **Available CPU cores**:

     - Recommend: jobs = number of cores - 1
     - Example: For 8 cores, use `-j7`

2. **Memory requirements**:

     - Each ANTA instance requires memory
     - Monitor system resources during execution using `htop` or similar tools

#### JSON vs YAML

> When working with large catalogs and inventories, using JSON format instead of YAML can provide better performance as ANTA loads JSON files more efficiently. If you choose to use JSON:

Reviewer: I think thats fair?
```suggestion
When working with large catalogs and inventories, using JSON format instead of YAML can provide better performance as Python loads JSON files more efficiently. If you choose to use JSON:
```

- Convert your YAML files to JSON (you can use `yq` for this)
- Modify the scripts to use `jq` instead of `yq`:

  ```bash
  # For device-based implementation
  NODE_NAMES=$(jq -r '.anta_inventory.hosts[].name' < "anta_inventory.json")

  # For tag-based implementation
  TAGS=$(jq -r '.. | select(.filters?) | .filters.tags[]' < "anta_catalog.json" | sort -u)
  ```

  Example of converting YAML to JSON:

  ```bash
  yq -o=json eval 'anta_inventory.yaml' > anta_inventory.json
  yq -o=json eval 'anta_catalog.yaml' > anta_catalog.json
  ```

### Results Management

> ANTA can output results in various formats:

Reviewer: do you need to repeat these? I would just point to the NRFU page documentatin and say you use JSON (less maintenance)

1. JSON format (default in our scripts):

    ```bash
    anta nrfu -d <device> -i <inventory> -c <catalog> json -o <output-file>
    ```

2. Markdown format:

    ```bash
    anta nrfu -d <device> -i <inventory> -c <catalog> md-report --md-output <output-file>
    ```

    Please refer to the [ANTA CLI documentation](https://anta.arista.com/stable/cli/nrfu/) for more information on result output formats.

    !!! note "Output Formats"
        The scripts provided in this guide output JSON files for each device or tag. You can modify them to output in other formats as needed.

3. Optional: You can merge the JSON results and generate a JUnit report using the following Python script (requires `junitparser`):

    ```python

>     from pathlib import Path

Reviewer: please use snippets for this and we will try to test it :)
